This storm blew over, and on the 30th March the young Duke of Dorset,
the Harrow schoolboy, set off to spend Easter with his mother, his
two little sisters, and his step-father at Paris. It was also stated
that the Embassy was about to be newly furnished. But in April matters
again looked threatening. Madame de Rémusat tells us that people
collected outside the British Embassy, to judge by the preparations for
departure whether there was to be peace or war. Whitworth[161] left
Paris on the 12th May and landed at Dover on the 20th. His staff met
with some obstacletification in the _London
Gazette_ dated the 16th announced an embargo on all French and
Dutch vessels in British ports, together with the issue of letters of
marque. On the 19th two French vessels laden with timber and salt were
captured off Brest. On the 23rd a decree was communicated to the French
Chambers providing that all Englishmen enrolled in the militia or
holding commissions in the army or navy should be detained as reprisals
for this embargo and capture prior to the declaration of war on the
18th. The decree was even extended by being made applicable to all
persons between eighteen and sixty, even if, like clergymen and others,
not enrolled in the militia. Talbot before leaving wrote a letter of
remonstrance to Talleyrand, who stated that Talbot having no longer any
official status he could not reply.

The only precedents for this detention were the arrest in 1746, without
any apparent reason, of all the English in Paris on the return of
the Young Pretender, and that of all Englishmen in France in 1793 as
hostages for Toulon. Thomas Moore heard Lord Holland in 1819 justify
Napoleon, but Mackintosh maintained that the seizure of vessels was
warranted by international law, and a French jurist, Miot de Mélito,
describes the detention as a ‘violent measure unusual even in the
bitterest wars,’ while Henri Martin, the French historian, charges both
Governments with having violated international law. The truth is that
Napoleon acted in a passion, and as in the case of the Duc d’Enghien
was too proud ever to acknowledge a mistake. As to an embargo, he
himself as early as the 13th May had despatched orders for the seizure
of British vessels in Holland, Genoa, and Tuscany. If, moreover, we
are to believe Madame Junot, Napoleon’s decree was due to his having
been informed that Colonel James Green had in a café threatened in
his cups to assassinate him, and though Junot, being acquainted with
Green, vouched for his having left Paris prior to the date of the
alleged threat, Napoleon refused to cancel the decree. So swiftly was
it enforced that the _Prince of Wales_ packet and the cutter
_Nancy_, which had made their usual passage from Dover to Calais,
were seized and their crews detained. When a few weeks afterwards
Napoleon visited Calais, Captain Sutton, of the _Prince of Wales_,
petitioned him for release, but he met with a peremptory refusal, and
Napoleon, on the two vessels being pointed out to him in the harbour,
said, ‘You have plenty of mud there; let them lie and rot.’

Before entering into details respecting the captives, I should speak
of the unusual bitterness given to the war by Napoleon. Anglophobia,
indeed, had been displayed by him even during the peace. The publishers
of the _Almanach National_ were sharply rebuked for proposing
to insert ‘Angleterre’ with its royal family at the head of the
alphabetical list of foreign powers. They had to relegate it lower down
as ‘Grande Bretagne,’ and curiously enough British representatives at
international Congresses are to the present day seated according to
this nomenclature. Napoleon, moreover, during his tour in Normandy
scolded his minister Chaptal for speaking of ‘_jardins anglais_.’
‘Why,’ he vehemently exclaimed, ‘do you call them English gardens? Do
you not know that this style of gardening came to us from China, that
it was brought to perfection in France, and that no good Frenchman can
credit England with it? Bear in mind that “French gardens” is the only
proper term for them, and never again grate on my ears with “English
gardens.”’[163]

Napoleon’s letters show how jealously he watched over the detention of
the English, and over everything relating to England. Thus in 1806 he
ordered all Englishmen to be expelled from the Papal States, and this
order perhaps accounts for Coleridge’s belief that he had a narrow
escape from being seized on account of his articles in the _Morning
Post_. It is extremely unlikely, however, that Napoleon ever heard
of Coleridge. He likewise decreed that English civilians found in any
country occupied by his troops should be prisoners, and all English
property or merchandise confiscated. Even any neutral vessel which had
entered an English port was also to be forfeited. Lord Oxford, Lord
Mount Cashell, and General Morgan would have been arrested at Florence
but for the refusal of the Queen Regent to act as Napoleon’s policeman.
Again in 1806 Napoleon writes, ‘I do not know why English prisoners
have been placed at Arras; no doubt to be near home so that they may
escape.’ He writes eight months later from Posen: ‘Issue a circular
and take measures that throughout the Empire all letters coming from
England or written in English and by Englishmen shall be destroyed. All
this is very important, for England must be completely isolated.’ In
1807 he complains that English prisoners still received letters. Two
years later, on a report that the English at Arras and Valenciennes
were meditating escape, he ordered their removal further inland. This
measure was extended in 1811 to the prisoners at Brussels. The daily
police report, which constantly spoke of the English prisoners, was
evidently scanned by him, even when absent from Paris, with great
attention; and seemingly anxious that no other eye should see these
documents, he directed that during his absence in Russia they should
be destroyed. There is consequently a gap of four months in 1812.
Even to the last the prisoners were never forgotten by him, for on
the 6th January 1814 he ordered their removal from Verdun to Orleans,
manifestly to prevent their release by the allied armies. Only in one
instance do I find his severity relenting. On the 12th November 1812 at
Givet he remarked English prisoners (captured soldiers or sailors, of
course, not _détenus_) who had been set to repair a swivel bridge.
Eight or ten of them jumped with alacrity into a boat to help to make
the mechanism work. He directed that these men should be picked out,
presented with 100 francs each, and sent back to England. An English
clergyman at Givet who had petitioned for a three months’ visit home
was to escort them. A petition from another Englishman there was also
to be favourably considered. It is pleasant to find Napoleon for once
good-humoured and generous.[165] When, in 1812, he directed that the
smuggling of coffee and sugar into Corsica by English vessels should
be winked at, and that sugar and coffee seized in British bottoms
should not, like British manufactured goods, be burnt, he was obviously
inspired by more selfish considerations. French fishing-boats were
forbidden to pass the night out at sea, lest they should smuggle
English goods, yet they were authorised to smuggle (the French had
adopted the word _smogler_) spirits into England. Fishing-boats
on both sides were unmolested, unless indeed they had clandestine
passengers on board; and the _Times_, running a light cutter in
the Channel, procured from them Paris newspapers. Letters were probably
conveyed occasionally in the same way. England had not retaliated
against French products, for in 1807 the _Monthly Review_ appealed
to British patriots not to continue spending a million and a half a
year on French brandies and other goods. But Cancale must have been
unable to continue sending its oysters, one hundred and nineteen
millions of which had been forwarded in the twenty months of peace. The
export of oysters from Granville and St. Malo was, however, permitted
by Napoleon in 1810.

The Irish refugees, whom Napoleon, as we have seen, had offered
Cornwallis to expel, now became his cats-paws. In July 1803, while
declining to see Arthur O’Connor, he deputed General Truguet to treat
with him and Berthier to advance him small sums of money. He promised
to send 25,000 troops to Ireland, and if 20,000 Irishmen would join
them he pledged himself to make Irish independence a condition of
peace. But he found that the Irish refugees or emissaries were split
into two parties, not always on speaking terms, O’Connor accepting,
the Emmets rejecting, the idea of a French protectorate. In July 1804,
having read a memoir by the Emmets, Lewins, and other exiles, he
decreed that all Irishmen accompanying the projected expedition should
be considered Frenchmen, and if not treated when captured as prisoners
of war reprisals would be exercised.[166] Robert Emmet had had an
audience of Napoleon previously to the peace, and an Irish legion was
formed in November 1803. MacSheehy organised it at Brest, and on the
Emperor’s coronation it was presented, like the French regiments, with
an eagle and colours. Irish dissensions, however, are proverbial, and a
duel between MacSheehy and O’Mealy led to the former being transferred
to a French regiment and to the latter resigning and apparently
returning to Baltimore. In 1806 the legion was ordered to Landau and
had to pass through Verdun.
