The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Monster-Hunters, by Francis
Rolt-Wheeler

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Monster-Hunters

Author: Francis Rolt-Wheeler

Release Date: March 26, 2023 [eBook #70390]

Language: English

Produced by: Bob Taylor, Tim Lindell and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was
             produced from images generously made available by The
             Internet Archive/American Libraries.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE MONSTER-HUNTERS ***





  Transcriber’s Note
  Italic text displayed as: _italic_




THE MONSTER-HUNTERS




BOOKS BY FRANCIS ROLT-WHEELER

U. S. Service Series

Illustrations from Photographs taken for U. S. Government. Large
12mo. Cloth. Price $1.50 each.


  THE BOY WITH THE U. S. SURVEY
  THE BOY WITH THE U. S. FORESTERS
  THE BOY WITH THE U. S. CENSUS
  THE BOY WITH THE U. S. FISHERIES
  THE BOY WITH THE U. S. INDIANS
  THE BOY WITH THE U. S. EXPLORERS
  THE BOY WITH THE U. S. LIFE-SAVERS


LOTHROP, LEE & SHEPARD CO., BOSTON

[Illustration:

  _Courtesy of American Museum of Natural History._

A BATTLE TO THE DEATH.

Arsinothere of three million years ago impaling a carnivorous
creodont, somewhat resembling a hyena.]




  THE

  MONSTER-HUNTERS

  BY

  FRANCIS ROLT-WHEELER

  Author of “U. S. Service Series”

  WITH FIFTY-THREE ILLUSTRATIONS, MOSTLY FROM
  PHOTOGRAPHS LOANED BY THE AMERICAN
  MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

  [Illustration: Decoration]

  BOSTON

  LOTHROP, LEE & SHEPARD CO.




  Published, June, 1916

  Copyright, 1916,
  BY LOTHROP, LEE & SHEPARD CO.

  _All Rights Reserved_

  THE MONSTER-HUNTERS

  Norwood Press
  BERWICK & SMITH CO.
  NORWOOD, MASS.
  U. S. A.




ACKNOWLEDGMENT


The Author desires to express his appreciation of the consultation
and assistance of Professor Henry Fairfield Osborn, President of
the American Museum of Natural History, New York City, and of the
members of the Scientific Staff of the Museum, especially: Dr.
Frederic A. Lucas, Director; Dr. W. D. Matthew, Curator of Vertebrate
Paleontology; Mr. Walter Granger, Associate Curator of Vertebrate
Paleontology (Mammals); and Mr. Barnum Brown, Associate Curator of
Vertebrate Paleontology (Reptiles). The Author further wishes to
express appreciation for the use of illustrations provided by the
Museum, naming especially the restorations of Mr. Charles R. Knight.




PREFACE


Mystery and marvel are the gates to that wild world where the
Monsters of the past lived out their monstrous lives. Adventure
that carries one into those steaming coal forests, into those black
and reptile-haunted swamps, that sets one face to face with the
sprawling brood of giants, terribly menacing and terribly true, holds
a thrill peculiar to itself. So startling, so madly strange seem the
conditions that we scarcely dare to believe the adventure true, and
then, the slow processes of Time turn one by one the pages of that
age-old book, and the most extravagant flight of the imagination is
outdistanced by facts.

Out to the waste and desert corners of the earth, men go to read
these stories. They find the bones of the colossal gladiators still
locked in their Titanic struggle, though that struggle ended in death
ten million years ago; they find a ruthless war of tooth and claw
made tenfold more ferocious than any combat of living beasts of prey
by the huge bulk, and the terrible offensive and defensive weapons
of those vast animals that the Earth could no longer tolerate.

There is scarcely a place in all the world where a boy cannot find
for himself some tokens of this Age of Monsters, where he cannot
himself be the hunter and the captor of strange things. In this
book all that is told of that grim past is true and every statement
may be taken as scientifically accurate. To show to the boys of the
United States the thrill of discovery in their own country, and the
splendor of the work that their scientists and museum experts are
accomplishing, is the aim and purpose of

  THE AUTHOR.




CONTENTS


                                                                  PAGE

  CHAPTER I

  KILLING THE LAST DRAGON                                            1


  CHAPTER II

  THE MONSTERS THAT NEVER WERE                                      28


  CHAPTER III

  PIRATES OF THE AIR                                                52


  CHAPTER IV

  SEEING THE SEA-SERPENT                                            81


  CHAPTER V

  THE MAD ARTIST AT THE SPHINX                                     116


  CHAPTER VI

  ACROSS THE DESERT ON CAMEL-BACK                                  154


  CHAPTER VII

  FINDING THE ELEPHANT’S GREAT-GRANDFATHER                         187


  CHAPTER VIII

  THE VALLEY OF FOSSIL WHALES                                      208


  CHAPTER IX

  THE MARCH OF THE MASTODONS                                       237


  CHAPTER X

  THE THREE-TOED HORSE                                             277


  CHAPTER XI

  UNDER THE CLAWS OF A DINOSAUR                                    306




ILLUSTRATIONS


  A Battle to the Death                                 _Frontispiece_

                                                                FACING
                                                                 PAGE

  Dragon Slain by Regulus                                           20

  Scylla of the Seven Heads                                         20

  Merman from the Mediterranean                                     20

  The Dragon of the Drachenfels                                     20

  Monsters Thought Real by the Ancients                             20

  The Unicorn in China                                              42

  Stegosaurus, the Super-Dreadnought of Old                         50

  The Largest Creature that Ever Flew                               72

  A Flying Nightmare of Olden Time                                  72

  Sea-Serpent Attacking a Pirate Ship                               82

  The Fiercest Monster that Ever Lived                              84

  The Sharp-Toothed Death                                           86

  The Jurassic Sea-Serpent                                          86

  Combat Between Ichthyosaurus and Plesiosaurus                     88

  Sea-Serpent Swallowing Sailors                                    96

  The Most Authentic Sea-Serpent                                    96

  Waiting for the Load                                             158

  Roaring at the Weight                                            158

  Rising, Still Protesting                                         158

  Ready for Desert March                                           158

  A Camel Being Loaded with Half-Ton Fossil Cases                  158

  At the Temple of Qasr-el-Sagha                                   194

  Across the Libyan Desert                                         194

  Zeuglodon, the Primitive Whale                                   220

  Climbing to the Fossils                                          228

  Finding a Sea-Cow Skeleton                                       228

  The Four-Horned Giants at Bay                                    232

  Into the Heart of Mexico                                         242

  Carrying Shell of Glyptodont                                     242

  Pteranodon, Climbing for a Swoop                                 250

  Finding the Eobasileus                                           256

  The Eobasileus or Loxolophodon                                   256

  The American Mastodon                                            270

  The Siberian Mammoth                                             270

  The Mammoth Tusk He Found                                        276

  Uncovering a Frozen Mammoth                                      276

  Finding the Eohippus                                             292

  Eohippus, the Four-Toed Horse                                    292

  Finding the Mesohippus                                           294

  Mesohippus, the Three-Toed Horse                                 294

  Smilodon, the Sabre-Tooth Tiger                                  302

  Museum Camp in Wyoming Bad Lands                                 308

  The Largest of the Titanotheres                                  308

  Herd Crossing Red Deer River, Alberta                            312

  Museum Boat Camp on Red Deer River                               312

  Opening (Rear Tent) to Moropus Quarry                            322

  Inside the Moropus Quarry, Agate, Neb.                           322

  The Dryptosaurus, a Giant Carnivorous Reptile                    328

  Unearthing a Saurolophus Skeleton                                330

  Unearthing a Diplodocus Hind Limb                                330

  Brontosaurus in his Native Swamp                                 332

  Trachodon, a Duck-Billed Dinosaur                                338

  A Brachiosaur, Largest of All Land Creatures                     346




THE MONSTER-HUNTERS




THE MONSTER-HUNTERS




CHAPTER I

KILLING THE LAST DRAGON


“Father, I want a dragon!”

The shrewd old merchant lowered the evening newspaper he was
diligently reading, and looked over it at his son.

“All right, my boy,” he said with a smile; “go ahead and get one.”

“But I mean a real dragon!”

“About how big, Perry?”

“I’d like one about a hundred feet long, if I could find it.”

“You don’t want much,” was his father’s half-humorous reply, as he
folded the newspaper so that he could read the next column with more
ease. After a few moments, pursuing the subject, he continued,

“Is there any particular breed of dragon that you’re after?”

“What I really want,” the boy answered, “is one of those spiny
ones—the sort Uncle George discovered out West.”

The keen old financier looked thoughtful, then deliberately took off
his reading-glasses, laid down the paper and turned to the boy.

“You’re talking about fossil monsters, then,” he said.

“Yes, Father, that’s it exactly. And I do hope you’ll let me do it!”

The boy’s earnestness was evident, and he knew he could count on his
father, for they had always been close friends.

“Let you do what?” the merchant queried in response. “I suppose all
this preamble about a dragon means that you have some crazy notion in
your head. Come along, son, tell me all about it.”

This was the chance for which Perry Hunt had long been waiting, and
he snatched eagerly at it.

“There’s a chap I know,” he sputtered, “who’s going ’way out to the
South Dakota Bad Lands to prospect for fossils. He’s a freshman at
Princeton, and it’s their expedition. He told me he was sure he would
be able to take me along, if I could fix things up at my end. I’ve
always been wild to go fossil-hunting, Father, and this is a real
chance. Can’t I go?”

Mr. Hunt tapped the ash from the end of his cigar and looked
inquiringly at his son.

“What in thunder do you know about fossils?” he asked, abruptly.

Perry colored. He was inclined to be shy about the things for which
he really cared, and he had never before talked to his father about
his hobby. The great secret of his boyhood had been a passionate
interest in the strange creatures which used to wander over the
earth, millions of years before the first man. Mr. Hunt had a sharp,
quizzical tongue, and Perry was afraid of being misunderstood and
ridiculed. Now, however, the time for concealment was past and he
spoke up valiantly.

“I’ve read nearly everything I could get hold of, along that line,”
he replied, “and I’ve hung around our little Museum a lot. The
curators and everybody have been bully to me down there, and they’ve
let me putter about in the workshops. I really have learned quite a
bit about fossils, Father, and Mr. Cavalier has shown me how to draw.
I’ve drawn heaps!”

“The deuce you have!” the other commented. “Got any of those drawings
still?”

The boy nodded.

“Let me see them, Perry—that is, if you don’t mind.”

Still a little flushed with confusion, the boy went to his own room
and came back a few minutes later with a sketch-book. His father
turned over the pages. The drawings covered a period of several
years, and though the first were crude, the later ones were quite
well done. Those dated during the last year showed the results of
real study. There was no doubting that the lad had picked up a fair
knowledge of gross anatomy in following his hobby.

Most of the pictures were copies from illustrations in scientific
books or were drawn from models in the Museum. But there were a
few, here and there, that were just fancy, idle sketches drawn for
amusement’s sake. Over one of these—a picture-book dragon with scales
and a snaky tail—the old merchant paused, smiling. Several minutes
elapsed before he turned the page. He went through the book twice
without saying a word. At last he spoke.

“In the second drawer from the bottom, in that cabinet,” he said,
pointing to an old cupboard which Perry had never seen unlocked, and
at the same time handing a key to the boy, “you will find a large
book bound in faded green leather. Bring it here.”

Although rebuffed by his failure to get a direct answer to his appeal
for permission to go on the expedition, Perry took the key. He felt
that, in some way, his present quest was connected with the question
he had raised, and as he unlocked the cupboard, the boy wondered. In
the drawer he found the faded book, with its cover of green Russian
leather all dry and crumbling to the touch, and brought it to his
father. Still without comment, the old merchant slowly untied the
string that held the covers of the ancient book together, and opening
it carefully, turned to the first page.

There, drawn with childish detail, was a picture of a dragon such as
men in the Middle Ages believed that creature really to be, with two
legs armed with claws, spiked wings, a long powerful tail, scales,
and a ferocious-looking head with jaws wide open, disclosing pointed
teeth, while from the throat, flames and smoke were pouring in
volumes.

The boy looked up.

“Why, Father—” he began.

With a faint smile, the old merchant pointed to the date at the
bottom of the drawing, its pencil marks so faint as to be almost
indistinguishable.

“I must have been nine years old, then,” he said. “I can remember
well when I drew that beast. Father had a queer old Latin book, a
sort of mediæval natural history, and it gave a drawing of every
supposedly known beast in the world. This was one of them. At that
time I believed that a dragon was as real as a lion or an elephant.
To tell you the truth, Perry, I’ve never quite got away from the
feeling of that old book of Aldrovandus, his beasts were so much a
part of my childhood. When I was a youngster I was convinced that any
adventurous boy could find plenty of dragons like this one, if he
only went to the right place to look for them.”

“And did the book tell you where to look?”

“It did, exactly. It described a region south of Ethiopicus—that was
Upper Egypt—where a vast region was uninhabited by men because of the
presence of three or four of these monsters. I was determined to go
there some day and kill a dragon.”

“And you took it all in, Father?”

“Why not? Only a couple of years before, Stanley rescued Livingstone
in the first great exploration across Africa. The region that
Aldrovandus wrote about, north of the Victoria Nyassa, in my day was
still an absolutely unexplored territory. Anything might be there,
even dragons.”

“I should think you’d have known there weren’t any real dragons,”
protested Perry, with the cocksureness of a boy.

“I had sense enough to know that I didn’t know it all,” said his
father with a snort, emphasizing the personal pronoun. “Why even in
your lifetime, boy, scientists have found an animal that no one had
ever heard of before, still living in the African forests.”

“What was that, Father?”

“The okapi, a sort of giraffe with daggershaped horns and striped on
the legs something like a zebra. And that discovery is a good example
of the sort of thing I mean.

“Naturalists once used to laugh at some of the old pictures on
the Egyptian temples which showed a beast like a cross between an
antelope and a zebra, with stripes. One of the heads of the god Set,
too, was unlike any animal known in the world. But when, in 1901, the
first okapi was caught by Sir H. H. Johnstone in the Semliki forest
in Uganda, it was found that the old Egyptians of three thousand
years ago were right, and that the modern naturalists were wrong in
their disbelief. So you see, Perry, lots of things are possible that
one would never expect.”

“But a dragon, Father! It’s such a made-up sort of beast—wings,
teeth, snake’s tail and all that sort of thing!”

“Don’t trouble yourself about that,” his father answered, “there are
plenty of dragons with wings, teeth and a snake’s tail, and, what’s
more, Science calls them dragons. _Draco volans_, the flying dragon,
that’s their real name, my boy. But they are all small, none of them
more than ten inches in length, including the tail.”

“Never heard of them,” said Perry, incredulously.

“If you don’t want me to think you a born idiot,” his father answered
sharply, “don’t let me catch you taking that tone, suggesting that a
thing doesn’t exist because you don’t know about it. There are a few
million things that you don’t know now, and when you get older and
have more sense, you’ll find a few million more things that you don’t
know.”

“I’m sorry, Father,” the boy said, in a milder tone. “I didn’t mean
to be uppish. Won’t you tell me about the ‘flying dragon’?”

“They are small lizards,” his father answered, “living throughout
Malasia and in Madagascar. They have a long lizard-like tail, four
inches in length, a fierce-looking head with a frill around it to
make them look ferocious, and the skin from the body to the four legs
is stretched out like that of a flying squirrel. If they were bigger,
they could play the dragon’s part well enough. But, as I was saying,
in my young days there wasn’t any good reason why I should disbelieve
the dragon. Aldrovandus said he possessed the skin of one, and that
seemed good enough proof for me. Yet I think I would have said less
about my belief in dragons, if I had any idea where it would land me.
I don’t think I ever told you the story of my fight with a dragon,
did I?”

“A real sure-enough fight?”

“An actual fight with an actual dragon,” said his father, with a
smile.

“But how could you?”

“I did have one, just the same.”

“I don’t understand you a bit. Won’t you tell the story, Father?”

Without answering directly, the old merchant turned over page after
page of the drawing-book, its pages browned and the pencil-sketches
faded with age, but all filled with dragons—every kind of dragon that
the boy of forty years ago had been able to discover or invent. At
last he stopped before a picture of a weird beast, that looked like
a cross between a man-eating tiger, a Chinese dragon, an alligator,
and a boa-constrictor, which was breathing out fire and smoke as
though it had a gas-works in its inside. In front of the dragon was
represented a small boy, about as tall as the dragon’s claw was long,
and the youngster was sticking a knife as big as himself into the
monster’s breast. In the near distance, quite out of perspective,
were a number of people running away in terror.

“There,” the old merchant said, with a mixture of amusement and
complaisance, “that was the beast I fought. Isn’t that a sure-enough
dragon for you?”

After his former rebuke, Perry was a little dubious about seeming too
skeptical, but he could not help saying:

“Well, that’s hardly a photograph, is it, after all?”

“No,” his father answered, “it’s not. I suppose I’ll have to admit
that it is partly imaginative. But the dragon I fought was something
like that.”

“You’ve got me guessing,” the boy admitted. “Won’t you tell me the
story, Father? It ought to be a great yarn.”

“I suppose I’ll have to,” the other agreed, “since I’ve led you on
so far.” He reached out for a new cigar, clipped it, lighted it, and
when sure that it was drawing properly, leant back in his chair and
began.

“I suppose I was about thirteen years old,” he said reminiscently,
“when this famous combat was held. At that time my folks were living
at a small place called Proctor’s Cave, on the Green River, in
Kentucky, not far from the Mammoth Cave. As you probably know, Perry,
that whole section is just riddled with caves, made by the gradual
dissolving of the limestone rock through the action of underground
rivers. Most of them, too, are full of stalactites.

“Proctor’s Cave, right on the river, was quite a growing town, and
though it was small, there was a right smart heap of children in
proportion to its size. About thirty-five boys around my age went to
the school there. I can remember the number because we were divided
into two gangs. Ours had fifteen members and the other had twenty.”

“I suppose you were ‘boss’ of your gang, Father?”

“I was the ‘War-Chief,’” was the smiling response. “Our gang was
called the ‘Indians’ and the others were the ‘Pioneers.’ You can see
that it was natural for us always to be ready for a fight. Everything
was taken in good part, though, until one day we caught one of the
chaps in the other gang and scalped him.”

“You didn’t really scalp him!”

“No, not exactly. There were limits, Perry, even in my young days.
But the victim thought it was genuine. That’s where the trouble came
in.”

“How was it, Father?” pleaded the boy, fairly wriggling with
excitement.

“As I remember,” the old merchant continued, musingly, “a week or
so before, the ‘Pioneers’ had got hold of one of our gang and had
given him the ‘third degree.’ They said that if he was an ‘Indian’
he ought to look like one. To make sure of it, they gave him a coat
of war-paint with some stuff they got from a drug store, and the
war-paint wouldn’t wash off. It wouldn’t even scrape off. It was
nearly a month before it wore off.

“Our turn came when this ‘Pioneer’ was delivered into our hands.
We told him we were going to have our revenge, and I tell you, he
was scared stiff! We brought the youngster to our own private
‘Indian’ cave, and there we discussed tortures, so that he could hear
what was being said. Each one of us had some kind of torment more
excruciating than the last.”

“It sure must have been blood-curdling to the chap who was
listening,” put in Perry, with an appreciative grin.

“I haven’t a doubt of it,” his father agreed. “Finally, we came to
a formal decision and informed the victim that he was to be scalped
alive. You should have heard him yell! However, yelling didn’t do any
good, for the cave was half a mile from town and a couple of hundred
feet underground, and he would have had to hoot like a Mississippi
River steamboat in order to be heard at all. So we went ahead and
scalped him.”

“How, Father?” queried the boy, eagerly.

“We made quite a ceremony of it,” was the reply. “First of all, we
gathered a lot of stinging nettles that grew outside the cave and
mashed them up with vinegar in an old tin can. The vinegar, you know,
holds the sting; it even seems to make it stronger. Then, in an old
iron pot we had, we mixed up a lot of corn syrup and red ink—we
always used that in our initiation powwow, and it certainly did look
and feel like blood.

“Next we blindfolded the unfortunate ‘Pioneer.’ We dipped a piece of
string in the nettle juice and tied it loosely round his head, and
sprinkled his head with the nettle vinegar, knowing that it would
only take a minute or two before it began to sting. Then we took
his cap, dipped it into the red ink and syrup, and clapped it—not
boiling, but still fairly hot—on his head. At the same instant, one
of the ‘braves’ stuck a bit of stick in a loop of the nettle-soaked
string and twisted it tight, also running his thumbnail around, as
if it were a knife. The cap and the blindfold were then yanked off
together.

“The youngster gave just one look. He saw the cap, all blood, in the
other fellow’s hand, and jumped to the conclusion that it was his
scalp. The tight string around his forehead felt like a cut and the
nettles began to sting like blazes. He put his hand up to his head,
felt the sticky wetness, looked at his hand, all red, let out an
earpiercing screech, and started to run. That was forty years ago,
but I believe he’d have been running yet, if he hadn’t bumped into
some one on the road.

“Help! I’ve been scalped!’ he yelled.

“I reckon he must have given the farmer a jolt, for while we were
a good way from the Indian country, still there were plenty of
‘hostiles’ about, and any day there might be a raid. This was about
the time of the Little Big Horn Massacre.”

“You mean Custer’s last stand?”

“Yes. So, you see, the farmer had reason enough to be startled.
As soon as he had a good look at the boy, though, he saw that the
youngster was only frightened. He cut the nettle string from the
lad’s head, washed off in the nearest brook as much of the red ink
and corn syrup as he could, and started for town.

“I thought we were in for real trouble, but to do that boy’s father
plain justice, I’ll admit he was a good sport. Though he was as mad
as a hornet, he was fair. He gave me a good tongue-lashing, and told
me—which was true—that I ought to have had more sense, as the boy
might have been killed with fright. He repeated to me the old story
of the man who was ordered to be beheaded, and who died when a cup of
cold water was dashed on his neck in joke. Still, he said it was a
boys’ row, he remembered when he was a boy himself, and it wasn’t his
business to interfere. He added that he hoped I would get my medicine
from the other gang, twice as hot as I had given it.”

“That was fair enough, Father.”

“Indeed it was. But even he was satisfied with what I got in return.”

“What was it?”

The old merchant rolled up his sleeve to the shoulder, and showed his
son a white scar running down almost the whole length of the upper
arm. The wound had evidently been a deep one.

“I got that from the dragon,” he said.

“You’d a real fight, then?” ejaculated Perry, surprised at this
evidence of an actual encounter.

“I was laid up for nearly a month,” was the reply. “But they didn’t
build any statues to me as they did to St. George, when he slew the
dragon, and no one gave me a triumph, as the people of Rome did to
Regulus over his combat with a monster.”

“I never heard of the Regulus story,” Perry said.

“It wasn’t a story,” his father corrected him, “it was a real fight,
like mine. Or at least it was said to be a real fight. Regulus sent
home the skin of his dragon, and it was carried before him in his
triumph.”

“But I thought all those dragon fights were just fairy tales!”

“Most of them are,” his father answered. “With the exception of
mine, I think Regulus’ fight with the dragon is the only one that is
supposed to be attested by history. Do you want to hear about it?”

“I’d rather hear yours,” Perry replied.

“I’ll come to that presently,” the merchant assured him, “and the
story of Regulus may put you in the right frame of mind to hear about
my prowess.

“Marcus Atillius Regulus, almost the only historical character to
have fought with a dragon,” he began, “bore one of the noblest names
in Rome. You may have learned in school, Perry, how he ravaged the
shores of Africa and brought Carthage into subjection, but that, at
the last moment, he was defeated. As a prisoner, he was sent by
Carthage on an embassy to make peace, upon his own honorable promise
to return to his foes to die by torture unless his embassy of peace
was successful. On arriving at Rome, Regulus gave the message with
which he had been entrusted by the Carthaginians, but ended with a
patriotic appeal to Rome not to let their affection and loyalty to
him overtop their honor.

“‘Let the prisoners be left to perish unheeded,’ he said, ‘let war
go on till Carthage be subdued.’ His counsel prevailed, the offers
of peace were refused, and Regulus returned voluntarily to Carthage.
The Romans have enshrined the name of Regulus high in the pages of
honor, but the Carthaginians had little understanding of valor and
good faith. They cut off his eyelids, placed him in a barrel spiked
with nails, knocked the head of the barrel out and fastened him there
so that he was immovable. Even his hands were tied. Then they exposed
him, naked, to the glare of an African sun, to die by the slow
agonies of thirst, fever, the scorch of the sun upon the unprotected
eyeballs, and the stinging insects of the desert.”

“But Rome got back at them?”

“Yes,” his father answered, “Scipio Africanus captured Carthage,
leveled every house to ground, sowed salt on the ruins and in the
name of Rome forbade any building to be erected there again. But I’ve
told you the story of Regulus, son, so that you might see that such a
man was scarcely likely to invent a story about a dragon to help his
reputation.”

“Where did he fight the dragon? In Africa, too?”

“Not very far from Carthage. It was in the year 256 B.C., after
the first Punic War had been raging for eight years, that Regulus
captured the city of Utica, about sixty miles northwest of Carthage,
near the modern city of Tunis. Between Utica and Carthage flowed a
river, then called the Bagrada, difficult to cross except at one
ford. When Regulus and his soldiers came to this ford, they found the
passage disputed by an enormous dragon, one hundred and twenty feet
long.”

“A real monster!” ejaculated the boy.

“Wasn’t he? And, so the old Roman historian tells, the skin of the
monster was so tough that the Romans could not pierce his hide.
Several times Regulus led the attack upon the dragon, but each time
the beast killed and devoured several of the soldiers. At last
Regulus brought up the artillery, the ballistæ and catapults, and
bombarded the dragon. Supported by the artillery, Regulus plunged
across the river alone, fought the dragon single-handed and slit his
throat. The skin was carried to Rome and graced Regulus’ triumph.”

“What do you suppose it really was?” queried the boy.

“I think,” his father answered, “it must have been a huge crocodile.
That would explain why the Roman swords could not pierce the
so-called dragon’s hide, and why the combat seems to have taken place
at the ford of a river.”

“But a hundred and twenty feet long, Father!”

“Possibly that was worked out from the skeleton. In those days it
would be quite easy to put the backbones of several animals together.
That trick was done only thirty years ago, when Dr. Albert Koch
collected the bones of two or three Zeuglodons or primitive whales
and made a monster which he called ‘Hydrarchus, the Water King,’
and which he exhibited all over Europe. Regulus’ dragon, carried
in his triumph, might have been something of the kind. As for the
Zeuglodons, I’ve often thought that the discovery of skeletons of
antediluvian beasts might have been one of the reasons for popular
belief in dragons.”

[Illustration: DRAGON SLAIN BY REGULUS.

SCYLLA OF THE SEVEN HEADS.



“Most of them were Norse,” the professor continued. “Just in the same
way that all English-speaking people believed in the dragon, and all
the Greeks believed in nymphs and fauns, and all the Irish believed
in fairies, so the Norse world pinned its faith to the Kraken, or the
Warrum or Sea-Worm of Iceland.”

“I don’t remember the Kraken,” put in the boy. “Just what was that
supposed to be?”

“It was described as being a creature of the deepest parts of the
sea. It was supposed to be a mile and a half in circumference, and
its horns were as high and as large as the masts of small vessels.”

“Did any one ever claim to have seen such a beast?”

“Several people,” the scientist replied. “In 1680, a Lutheran
minister, the Rev. Anson Friis, reported the discovery of a small
Kraken, stranded in a fjord near Alstahoug. He described the creature
as almost round, with a head something like that of a parrot and a
long tail divided into four round swimming paddles. He went on to
say that it took him nine minutes of sharp walking to walk round the
carcass. Baron Grippenhjelme, the local magnate, was more moderate
in his estimate, but even he declared it to be sixty fathoms (300
feet) across. With a better perception than the minister who had
first discovered the carcass, he hazarded the guess that the strange
creature was a polyp.”

“What do you suppose it really was?” queried the boy.

“That’s a little difficult to say,” was the guarded reply. “There’s
not much evidence to go on. There seems no doubt that Friis and
Grippenhjelme found something. The remarks about a parrot’s beak
by one, and the other’s reference to a polyp suggest that perhaps
a giant squid and an octopus were washed ashore together, and if,
as probable, their flesh already was decaying, examination would be
apt to be very brief. Don’t forget, Perry, that the size was only
an estimate. Even the most conservative guesses shrink under the
application of a two-foot rule.”

“Yet you seem to think, Uncle George, that some of the sea-serpent
reports might have something in them?”

“All of them are based on something,” was the reply, “and there are
a few that one hesitates to deny. It would almost seem certain that
there are some large creatures in the sea, in addition to the whales,
though probably nothing as large as a full-sized sulphur-bottom
whale. It is equally certain that, whatever these creatures may be,
they are not serpents, though they may possess snakelike features.
One has to be careful about denials,” he went on, taking a battered
old note-book out of his pocket, and turning over the leaves,
“because some reports are quite circumstantial. The most famous
of them was the report once made by the captain and officers of a
British man-o’-war, the frigate _Dædalus_, in 1848. I thought I had
that note in here. Yes, here it is.

“Listen to this, Perry,” he went on, “and perhaps your disbelief will
have a jolt:

“‘I have the honor,’” he read, “‘to acquaint you for the information
of my Lord Commissioners of the Admiralty, that at 5 o’clock P. M. on
the 6th of August last, in latitude 24° 44´ S. and longitude 9° 22´
E. (1,000 miles west of the coast of South Africa) with the weather
dark and cloudy, wind fresh from the NW, with a long ocean swell from
the SW, the ship on the port tack heading NE by N, something very
unusual was seen by Mr. Sartoris, midshipman, rapidly approaching the
ship from before the beam. The circumstance was immediately reported
by him to the officer of the watch, Lieutenant Edgar Drummond, with
whom and Mr. Wm. Barrett, the master, I was at the time walking the
quarterdeck.

“‘On our attention being called to the object, it was discovered
to be an enormous serpent, with head and neck kept about four feet
constantly above the surface of the sea, and, as nearly as we could
approximate, by comparing it with the length of what our main-topsail
yard would show in the water, there was, at the very least, 60 feet
of the animal, _à fleur d’eau_ (flush with the surface of the water),
no portion of which was, to our perception, used in propelling it
through the water either by vertical or horizontal undulation. It
passed rapidly, but so close under our lee quarter, that had it
been a man of my acquaintance, I should easily have recognized his
features with the naked eye, and it did not, either in approaching
the ship or after it had passed our wake, deviate in the slightest
degree from its course to the SW, which it held on at the pace of
from 12 to 15 miles per hour, apparently on some determined purpose.

“‘The diameter of the serpent was about 15 or 16 inches behind the
head, which was, without any doubt, that of a snake, and it was
never, during the twenty minutes that it remained in sight of our
glasses, once below the surface of the water; its color a dark brown,
with yellowish-white about the throat.

“‘It had no fins, but something more like the mane of a horse, or
rather, a bunch of seaweed, washing about its back. It was seen by
the quartermaster, the boatswain’s mate and the man at the wheel, in
addition to myself and officers above mentioned.

“‘I am having a drawing of the serpent made from a sketch taken
immediately after it was seen, which I hope to have ready for
transmission to my Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty by
to-morrow’s post.’

[Illustration: SEA-SERPENT SWALLOWING SAILORS.

From the records of the Swedish bishop-explorer, Olaus Magnus.]

[Illustration: _Courtesy of Illustrated London News._

THE MOST AUTHENTIC SEA-SERPENT.

  This drawing was made on the British man-o’-war _Daedalus_, and the
  captain and officers, men of high naval rank and standing, signed
  an official statement that the creature closely resembled this
  drawing, made at the time. The monster was observed
  for more than twenty minutes and came close to
  the vessel. Science has never been able to
  explain this sea-serpent, and it is still
  one of the mysteries of the ocean.
]

  “‘PETER M’QUHAE, Capt.’”

“What on earth can that have been?” queried Perry, in surprise. “It
sounds almost real, somehow!”

“It was real enough,” was the reply. “There’s no doubt of that. The
only question is: What was it that they saw? The sketch—I copied it
in my book, here it is—shows that it wasn’t a serpent. The captain
thought it was a serpent, because it was long and thin. A worm is
long and thin, but it isn’t a serpent; an eel is long and thin, but
it isn’t a serpent; and a ribbon-fish may be fifty or sixty feet
long, but it’s not in the least like a snake. Look at the head in the
sketch, Perry, and you’ll see that it isn’t like a snake’s head, at
all.”

Perry took the note-book and looked at the drawing with the intensest
interest.

“It doesn’t look like anything in particular,” he said, “it’s more
like a cross between a seal and a whale.”

The scientist nodded approvingly.

“Once in a while, Perry,” he said, “you show a whole lot of good
sense. Professor Owen, the great naturalist, when the _Dædalus_
sketch was shown him, wrote a long article suggesting that what
Captain M’Quhae had seen was a sea-elephant, of which specimens have
been found nearly thirty feet in length. And a sea-elephant is of the
family of the seals.

“Personally, I rather question whether Professor Owen was right,
because so conspicuous a thing as the trunk-like prolongation of the
nose, at least a foot long, would not have escaped the attention of
sailors. Seamen’s eyes are keen for objects in the water. Some of
the supposed sea-serpents probably have been squids, some have been
schools of porpoises, some have been ribbon-fish, but I think the
monster seen from the quarter-deck of the _Dædalus_ probably some
aged and patriarchal creature of the seal variety, a mammal and not a
reptile, a creature of this age, not of an age of two million years
ago.”

The porpoises had passed far out of sight long before this
conversation was ended, but his uncle’s belief that there was
some huge creature still swimming in the seas quickened the lad’s
interest, and he scanned the waters with the professor’s field-glass
eagerly and often. He thought of the phrase “beginner’s luck” and
his hopes continued unabated.

Two days later land was sighted, and the steamer came to the great
gateway of that sea which has formed the basin of civilization, that
great Mediterranean Sea on which Venice, Rome, Greece, Egypt, and
Phœnicia have played their part. To the right, lay mysterious Africa;
to the left, frowning and sheer, rose the great rock of embattled
Gibraltar, Great Britain’s guardian of the straits. The boy was
enjoying the sight of land and picturing to himself the scene if the
dogs of war were loosed and that front of rock should suddenly belch
forth a flame curtain of fire and death before which no vessel could
live for a moment.

“No signs of Scylla and Charybdis,” said a voice behind him.

“That’s so, Uncle George,” the boy said, turning, “this is where the
old Greeks believed Scylla to be, isn’t it? But I’d rather tackle
that six-headed monster, in spite of all her appetite, even though
each head took a man from the crew, as it did from Ulysses’ ship,
than I would run the gauntlet of the guns of Gibraltar let loose on
us. Still, even Scylla might be uncomfortable. What do you suppose
was the basis of that old story, Uncle George!”

“Personification of the peril of adventure,” was the reply. “That
is why Scylla and Charybdis were first said to hold guard over the
Straits of Messina, between Sicily and Italy, while afterwards the
twin terrors of the ravening whirlpool and the six-headed man-eating
woman monster were located at Gibraltar. As the Straits of Messina
became more familiar, the terror had to be put farther away, where
only the most daring would venture.

“Remember, Perry, that the Greeks believed they saw a god or a
goddess or a demon in all the forces of Nature. The sea was under
the rule of Poseidon, or Neptune, as the Romans called him; the dawn
goddess Eos, or Aurora, was the mother of the Winds, such as Boreas,
the North Wind and Zephyr, the West Wind. So, you see, the Greeks
felt sure that every point of danger must be guarded by some kind
of demon or monstrous form, while beautiful places were inhabited
by fair maidens. After all, Perry, it’s not so very long ago since
people believed in mermaids. So far as that goes, some people believe
in them still.”

“Uncle George,” exclaimed the boy in surprise, “surely they don’t!”

“Oh, yes, they do,” the professor replied. “In the year 1903—that’s
not so long ago—two girls who lived on the Island of Sark, one of
the Channel Islands, off the north coast of France, came hurrying to
the house of the village clergyman, telling him that they had found
a baby with a fish’s tail on a beach, and that it was swimming in a
pool of water. They were going to pick it up, they said, but when one
of the girls put her hand down toward it, the supposed baby opened
its mouth and showed a row of sharp teeth like a fish.”

“But they couldn’t have seen any such thing!” declared the boy. “I
know enough for that.”

“Wait a bit,” came the warning answer; “you haven’t heard all
the story yet. The minister or abbé, who seems to have been an
inquisitive fellow, hurried to the place with the two girls. There,
in a rock pool, as he described it in a communication to some local
scientific society, he found a mermaid, a little creature not quite
three feet long, but looking more like an old woman than a baby, as
the girls had described it. He remarks, in his letter, in a certain
naïve way, that the mermaid did not seem to understand either
English or French. Thinking that she might be bewitched, he baptized
her, then and there.”

“Baptized her!” said Perry, in surprise. “What for? Did he think she
could go to church on a tail?”

“Perhaps he thought it best to be on the safe side,” was the reply.
“Now here is a point that gives a curious twist of apparent truth to
the story. The abbé added that the christening did not seem to make
any difference. If he really wanted to color the tale, there was his
chance to make a miracle out of it.

“In his half-scientific account of the occurrence, the abbé stated
that the mermaid breathed like a woman, not a fish. Although warned
by the girls, he tried to pick up the strange creature, but she
fastened her teeth savagely in his arm, and when he tried to shake
her off, she hung on, letting go her hold suddenly when free from the
rock-bound pool in which she had been a prisoner. Falling on the flat
ledges of the rocks, she shuffled rapidly to the sea, plunged in and
was gone. The doctor who cauterized the abbé’s arm added a statement
concerning the unusual character of the bite.”

“That’s a fishy tale!” exclaimed the boy derisively.

“It does sound a bit queer,” the professor admitted, “and yet,
it’s not so long ago since Harvard University had in its museum a
‘specimen’ of a mermaid.”

“What was it?”

“It was a mummied young monkey down to the waist sewed on to the tail
of a fish, the monkey’s body being all covered with fish scales. It
was a marvelous piece of Japanese workmanship, and the naturalists
accepted it as truth.”

“What a fake!” exclaimed the boy. “I wonder if there’s anything like
that in our Museum at home.”

“Probably not. I doubt if a hoax like that could be worked nowadays,”
the professor responded, rising from his deck-chair as the bugler
blew the call to dinner.

All through their trip along the Mediterranean, Perry became a
howitzer of questions and kept Antoine and his uncle busy every
moment that they were on deck. One of the things which especially
caught the lad’s imagination was his friend Antoine’s picture of
the constant risings and fallings of the great sea on which they
were traveling, so that Perry began to think of the Mediterranean
as a huge pond which came and went with changes in geology, being
sometimes like a puddle in the roadside on a showery day, and
sometimes a vast ocean which linked together the waters of the
world. Antoine had whiled away many hours of the trip modeling in
clay, while the boy watched his skillful fingers—the Belgian was an
excellent sculptor—and so, when one day, he undertook to explain to
Perry the geological changes in the Mediterranean, he brought up one
of his modeling boards. Spreading on it a lump of clay, he smoothed
it out and began the story of the formation and changes of the great
inland sea.

“At first the world was all fire, all fire,” he said, spreading his
hands above the board, “thick hot mists, so dense that the sun could
not shine through, so hot that the rain could not fall as water, but
was turned to steam as it came near the white-hot earth. There was
no land, and no sea, then. The earth was without form, and void. So
hundreds of millions of years went by.

“After a long time, so long a time that we cannot even guess how
long, the earth began to get a little cooler, and a crust was formed.
This was the beginning of land. As yet it was only a shell that
vibrated like a boiler-skin, a land bordered on every side by oceans
that hissed and steamed.”

Antoine swept his hand across the clay, until only the thinnest layer
lay on the surface of the board.

“So land began,” he repeated. “But the crust was very thin. Even the
attraction of the moon, which causes the tides, would rip the crust
across, the molten rock would well up through the fissures, and the
whole world was a glare with fire shining red and reflected on the
low-hung clouds of swirling steam. Every century the skin of land
grew slightly thicker, though wrinkled and crumpled by the constant
wrench and cleavage, first by the daily tides, then by the spring
tides, and at last it remained steadfast, save when the frequent
volcanic eruptions and earthquakes cracked the crust across.”

“It must have been awfully thin!” exclaimed the listener.

“Compared with the size of the earth, that first crust was thinner
than a tissue made of spiders’ webs around a baseball,” was Antoine’s
reply. “Little by little it grew thicker, however, until parts of it
were strong enough to resist the tides. Over these stretches of land,
which were the first continents, the radiation of heat grew less,
and when the mist from the upper air condensed into rain, it was
allowed to fall, instead of being turned into steam, and reached the
earth at last, to lie there a bubbling and seething body of water,
almost boiling hot. These were the first river and lake systems of
the world. All, of course, have gone; the world has been made over,
many, many times.”

“There was no life then, I suppose?” hazarded the boy.

“Not at first, no, no. But, even to-day, tiny one-celled plants have
been found living in hot springs (170°) that are not far from boiling
point, and it must have been at some early time in that ocean, as it
grew cooler, that life began.”

“And whereabouts was that first continent?”

“No one knows, no one,” was the answer. “The largest outcrop of the
oldest or Archæan rocks is in Canada, where the great Laurentian
Range tells the story of the fire-made earth in its granite and
gneiss deposits. All that had been deposited upon those rocks has
been washed away and the old formation is laid bare. Then, as the
land and seas cooled further, the hot steaming mists condensed the
water that for so many millions of years had hung in clouds of
vapor over the earth and torrential rains began to fall. Thus the
huge shallow oceans spread over the globe, leaving very little land.
This was the Cambrian Period, the oldest of the six divisions of the
Paleozoic Era. You know what ‘paleozoic’ means, Perry?”

“Sure,” answered the boy, “the oldest life.”

“Right, right. Now, in the Cambrian Period, all the present
Mediterranean was upheaved, part of an early continent that included
all of Africa, Eastern Europe and Asia. Western Europe was a shallow
sea. In the next Period, the Ordovician, there was a further change
and leveling. The Atlantic reached as far as what is now Italy, while
Greece and Asia Minor were its coast lands. Siberia was sea, then,
Perry, and the Indian Ocean was land.”

The lad passed his hand in a puzzled way across his forehead.

“It’s hard enough to remember geography now,” he said, “but it would
be fierce if a chap had to know all that ancient stuff as well!”

Antoine laughed and swept his hand again across the clay.

“You wouldn’t have to learn much geography around this part of the
world during the next stage, the Silurian Period,” he said, “because
it was all sea. But,” and his fingers modeled a plateau, “at the
end of the Silurian Period the land rose again, and when all these
changes were complete, two things had happened. Fish had evolved in
the sea, and plants had appeared on the land.

“Then,” he continued, “came the Devonian Period, when the Old Red
Sandstone was laid down under the sea. Curiously enough, Perry,
except for a small range of hills in Scotland and for parts of
Norway, the only high land in Europe was the part that is now the bed
of the Mediterranean Sea, the very land over which we are at present
sailing,” and he pointed over the vessel’s side.

“All through the Devonian Period and the next, that of the Coal
Forests or the Carboniferous, the sea ate steadily into the land, the
big Mediterranean island was cut in two, and nearly all the world
became a dull, hot, dank marsh, with mosses a hundred feet high and
huge horse-tails five feet in circumference. There were no seasons
then, summer and winter were the same. There was no movement except
the sluggish crawling of a giant salamander or the flight of a large
primitive insect. Not a spot of color existed, not the song of a
single bird. The Carboniferous Period ended with the whole of Europe
one sinister and gloomy marsh, the giant vegetation of which became
the coal we use to-day.”

“Is that why we sometimes find things that look like fern-leaves in
coal?” queried Perry.

“Yes, yes, they are fern leaves, for in the Coal Forests were many
kinds of primitive ferns.

“Then came the Permian revolution,” and Antoine’s nimble fingers
began to put the clay in great masses on his board. “Real mountain
ranges began. The swamps awoke from the dark sleep of the Coal-Forest
time and reared themselves into plateaus, the shallow seas were
hurled into deeper beds, and though the Mediterranean again became a
sea, yet there was even more land surface then than there is to-day.

“With this upheaving, came the First Age of Cold. The coal-forests
died, the pine-trees took their places. The marshes became plains.
Nearly all species of life belonging to that warm age died. The
Empire of the Fishes and Amphibians ended. The Mediterranean slowly
diminished in size and again became an inland sea, while in Europe
to the north, Africa to the south and in America, beyond the
Atlantic, the Empire of the Reptiles began.

“The Middle Ages of the Earth had come, known as the Mesozoic Era.
The Mediterranean held its place as an inland sea, as one might
well expect, since it was sea during the Permian times when most of
the world was high, but all through the Triassic—which is the first
Period of the Mesozoic Era—the land began to fall, and before it was
over, the Mediterranean joined the Atlantic once again. Slowly the
land fell further, the sea spread out vast arms of warm water; plants
and animals increased. By the Jurassic Period there was marsh again
from Norway to Africa and the huge dinosaurs became the masters of
the world, living on the islands and peninsulas in the midst of that
shallow tropical sea.

“Yet the slow death of cold which had awaited the Fishes and
Amphibians in the Permian Revolution was awaiting the Reptiles also.
The Second Age of Cold was near. After the Cretaceous Period, the
land began to rise, until, when hundreds of thousands of years had
elapsed, the northern part of Europe was elevated, the Mediterranean
lost its opening to the ocean, and became once more an inland sea.
Then came the Second Ice Age, the second cataclysm of want and death.
The Pterodactyls died away completely, the huge reptile monsters fell
by thousands and all the giant Saurians had to give place to the
warmer-blooded mammals.

“So came the Age of New Life, the Cenozoic Era, of which only the
first portion or the Tertiary Period concerns us now. During the
Eocene Epoch began the leveling and wearing away of the land raised
at the end of the Age of Chalk. Almost to the Equator, Africa was
flooded. Italy, Turkey, Southern Russia and Asia Minor sank. The
Atlantic and the Pacific joined then, as they would not be joined
again for millions of years to come, when Man should pierce an
isthmus at Panama.

“Then, after the Oligocene Epoch, the mountains of to-day began to
rise. Through the Miocene and Pliocene Epochs, the Atlas Mountains,
the Alps, the Pyrenees, the Apennines and the Caucasus rose above the
plain, and the floor of the Eocene ocean is found to-day ten thousand
feet above sea-level in the Alps, fifteen thousand feet above
sea-level in the Himalayas, and twenty thousand feet above sea-level
in Thibet. And, Perry, as the land rose at the end of the Pliocene
Epoch, and the Pleistocene Epoch began, tropical beasts and plants
fled to the Equator, snow gathered on the newly made mountain ranges,
glaciers glittered on their flanks. The Third Ice Age had come, the
beginning of the Quarternary or Modern Period. Nor is the Third Ice
Age yet past, for it is only recently that the shrinking of the ice
has allowed Man to stand on the North and South Poles of the globe.”

“Perry!” suddenly rang out a cry, with a note of strident urgency,
“get me my field-glass, quick!”

Wondering, but realizing the note of haste in the command, the boy
jumped into full stride along the deck and down the companion way.
He was back in half a minute, taking the glass out of the case as he
ran. Already the rail was crowded with figures, but they made way for
him. He handed the field-glass breathlessly to the professor, and
looked, with an intensity that made his eyes burn, in the direction
whither the binocular was pointing.

“It’s a boat,” he said, “a little boat; no, two boats; no, three—”

He clutched his uncle’s arm.

“Those aren’t boats—” he began, and stopped.

About a quarter of a mile away, the even blue ripples of the great
inland sea were broken by something black that seemed to be advancing
on the ship, moving on a line that converged upon the vessel’s
course. Excitement sent the boy’s heart thumping like the engines
of the steamer, and when, a moment later, without a word, his uncle
handed the glass to him, his hands shook so much that he could hardly
focus the instrument.

There leaped into view, in the field of the glass, a broad head,
something like that of a seal, but poised upon a thick, long neck. He
could have sworn there were long coils behind, but he could not see
them.

“The _Dædalus_—” he half panted.

“My camera!” came a second crisp order.

Perry handed back the glass, which the professor almost snatched from
his grasp.

If the boy had hurried the first time for the binocular, he made
the decks burn on his second trip. He knew that the professor’s big
camera would take valuable time to unpack, so he fairly raced along
the stateroom corridors to his own cabin for his own small camera,
and he thanked his lucky stars, as he ran, that he had put in a new
roll of film that morning.

He could not have gone faster, but, when he returned, his uncle was
sweeping the horizon with the glass in a way that showed all too
plainly that the object of search was no longer in view.

“Gone!” he cried, in apprehension.

“Yes,” said the professor, “gone!”

“But it must be there! We both saw it!”

“I thought I saw—”

“There! Uncle George! Over there! There it is again!”

Perry pointed almost directly abeam of the vessel.

The scientist looked, and shook his head.

“You try,” he said, and handed the glass to the boy.

The lad rested his elbows on the rail to steady his shaking hands,
but whatever the object was that he thought he had seen, he could not
find in the glass.

“If I’d only had my camera with me!” he mourned.

“It was too far away for anything to have shown on the plate,” his
uncle responded, “and, perhaps, there was nothing there to show.
Light plays some strange tricks sometimes. The records of the sea
are full of just such appearances as this. But they are never near
enough, or exact enough, for science to use. Still, you’re beginning
young, Perry, and maybe you’ll be the first to catch him.”

“He might come up again,” the lad cried eagerly.

“He might,” was the guarded reply.

But, though from that time Perry scarcely left the ship’s rail,
even for meals, until the ship was docked, and though he slept with
field-glass and camera within his grasp, the sea-serpent, if such it
was, was seen no more.




CHAPTER V

THE MAD ARTIST AT THE SPHINX


“One of the Seven Wonders of the World stood there, Perry,” said
the lad’s uncle, as the steamer came into the port of Alexandria,
pointing to a small mosque with lofty pointing minarets, on the
little island of Pharos. “That is where the Pharos was built, the
first of all the large lighthouses of the world.”

“I’ve seen pictures of it, Uncle George,” responded the boy; “it
didn’t seem so very wonderful.”

“Yet it was the first,” the scientist reminded him, “and in those
days, the Mediterranean was as much dreaded as Cape Horn waters
are to-day, and more. Upon that little island stood Man’s initial
challenge to the elements. Before it was erected, a sailor could only
reach harbor in daylight and when the elements were kind, but after
the building of the Pharos, Man’s will blazed high above the fury
of the storm. It was the fiery sign that Man was greater than the
tempest and flaunted his defiance to the angry waves.”

“The first to dare—” said the boy, feeling his pulse quickening;
“yes, that does make it great.”

“To me, that is the spell of Egypt,” continued the scientist.
“Everywhere, in this old land, one has a feeling of a world which
dates back so long ago that to the dwellers of that time, the
simplest things were a reckless adventure. They blazed the trail for
civilization, those ancient Egyptians, and the thrill of the Valley
of the Nile lies in the fact that one can see those blaze-marks
still.”

“Where?”

“Everywhere. Not only in the temples and the pyramids, but in the
people themselves. It is a haunted land, Perry, haunted by Pharaohs
as other lands are haunted by fairies, and the spell always holds
fast. I have been here before, and still I am almost as eager as you
can be to step ashore in Egypt once again.”

“It’s all so new to me,” the boy said, hungrily.

“It won’t seem new,” his uncle rejoined. “Once you have known the
call of Egypt, you will feel as though you were returning to a
long-forgotten home. You will see. But you will not feel it in
Alexandria. You must wait.”

The warning not to expect too much of Alexandria came in time to save
Perry from a grievous disappointment, for, as he confided to Antoine,
a few hours later, during all the yelling bustle of docking and
customs examination, commercial Alexandria was not an Egyptian city
at all.

“It’s like Genoa,” the boy remarked, half-indignantly, recalling that
busy port at which the steamer had stopped for a few hours on the way
down the Mediterranean, “and I haven’t heard a word of anything but
Italian since we landed!”

His tone implied that he was being cheated, and his friend laughed.

“Yes, yes, Alexandria isn’t Egyptian,” he said. “It wasn’t built
until long after Egypt’s glory had decayed. The time of Alexandria’s
greatness was when she was a Roman colony, and Rome is Italy.”

“Well, I want Egypt!” declared Perry, with the characteristic
insistence of his years.

“You’ll get plenty of ‘Egypt,’ as you call it,” his friend cautioned.
“I shouldn’t be at all surprised, Perry, if, in the desert, you
didn’t wish many a time for this climate of Alexandria, where it can
be cool and rainy and where even wildflowers grow.” He pointed to
some flowering weeds. “You’ll be hungry for a sight of something
fresh and full of life like that before you’ve finished this trip.”

“P’raps! But I don’t care how soon the desert comes,” insisted Perry.
“I don’t think much of this!” And he awaited with impatience the
starting of the train to Cairo.

Soon, however, his mood changed. As the train cleared the villas
of the suburbs of Alexandria, skirting the coast, curved round
the northern edge of Lake Maryut and struck across the Delta, his
momentary peevishness at the non-Egyptian character of Alexandria
vanished. A glimpse of a stream with a forest of masts and yards that
looked like things of a dream, so slender were they, wrung from him
an exclamation of astonishment.

“Look, Antoine,” he said, “there’s the old Nile!”

“No, no,” answered the other, “that’s the Mahmoudieh Canal. And it’s
not old, it’s quite new, not a century old yet. It is the canal that
has made Alexandria the principal port of Egypt instead of the old
Egyptian ports of Rosetta and Damietta. The traffic on the canal is
exceedingly heavy.”

“And are those spidery things the masts of ships on the canal?”

“Why not?”

“They look as if the first puff of wind would snap every one of them.”

“Yet they are masts, Perry, the spars of the gyassas or barges. They
do look as though they were made of spider webs, but I suppose they
must be strong. All the Nile barges are built that way.”

The tall gyassas partly comforted Perry for the noisy bustle of the
Alexandrian wharves, but his content was complete when, as the train
turned to the southward, he saw in the distance a camel outlined
against the sky-line. He felt that at last he really was in Egypt.

The train was bowling along rapidly over the outer stretches of the
Delta and its alternate patches of desert, marsh and cotton field,
with a few mud huts here and there, when, even above the clatter of
the train, there came a hideous squeaking rattle.

“What in the wide world is that racket!” he ejaculated.

“Probably a sakiyeh,” was the reply.

“What’s a sakiyeh?”

“An old water-wheel. You’ll see it in a second.”

Then, a moment later, his friend added, “I thought so,” and pointed
to where a fellah, or laborer, in his blue galabeah—which Perry
inelegantly declared to be a nightshirt—stood beside the creaking
water-wheel while a water-buffalo toilsomely trod round to raise the
water to irrigate the land. The fellah looked up as the train sped
by, and thus Perry caught his first glimpse of peasant labor.

“When Joseph was sold by his brethren into Egypt,” remarked Antoine,
“he probably saw sakiyehs being worked just that way. Very little has
changed since.”

“And those mud huts?”

“The Children of Israel made bricks without straw,” the other
reminded him. “Bricks are only baked mud.”

Perry stared out of the window, thinking. What the professor had
said, came back to him—“blaze-marks along the trail to civilization.”
That was the trick of Egypt.

The landscape was flat and uninteresting. As the train sped on,
there was less desert and less marsh, the cultivated cotton fields
grew thicker, there were more mud huts. Here and there a cluster
of huts centered around a small mosque, with its graceful minaret.
Occasionally small structures—which Antoine told him were saints’
tombs—broke the level, but aside from these, the lands of the Nile
delta were level and monotonous. Yet, in spite of all, they were
curiously vibrating, and after a while Perry realized that this was
due to the sun, which flooded the country with a light so intense
that it seemed brighter than sunlight.

The train roared across a sluggish stream, with a gyassa in full sail
upon it.

“The Rosetta branch of the Nile,” said Antoine.

Perry had nothing to say. It was not the picture he had formed in
his mind of the Nile, but there was something about it, something
incalculably old, as though the river were very aged and had fallen
asleep. On the other side of the Rosetta branch, all the land was
under cultivation. Cotton-cleaning mills, dotted here and there, took
away even the quiet romance of the first part of the journey, and
Perry was glad when at Bulak they crossed the Nile proper and the
train sped swiftly on its way to Cairo.

“Don’t get disappointed in Cairo right away,” said Antoine to him, as
they neared the suburbs. “Cairo is one of the most picturesque cities
in the world, but not around the railway station, nor near the hotel.
We’re going to be in Cairo several days, so you will have a chance to
see all you want of it.”



The Belgian looked puzzled at the phrase, but Perry burst out
indignantly:

“We are playing with a straight deck, Dick,” he said. “There was a
rhinoceros about the size of a big ram, and it had three toes, like
all rhinoceroses have, and there were hundreds of them on the plains
a million years ago.”

The cowboy looked at him shrewdly.

“You sound some like a Sioux medicine man after a dose o’
fire-water,” he said, “but I’ve got a trustin’ nature, an’ maybe I’ll
play the hand out after all. You’re willin’ to swear that there was a
critter o’ that kind?”

“Word of honor,” said the boy.

“I’m satisfied,” the other replied, “I’m always willin’ to gamble an’
I push in my stack o’ chips. If that critter I saw is what you’re
romancin’ about, I’ll lay one over on old Doc Gumshoe so heavy that
he won’t ever have the nerve to talk again. I’ll make him look like a
paralyzed stingin’ lizard. A rhino a million years old! Gents, let us
amble forth!”

And, putting one toe in the stirrup, Round-up Dick floated into the
saddle, while the broncho began to pirouette on his hind legs.

“We’d better follow him while he is in the mood to guide us,” said
Antoine hurriedly to the boy. “Here’s your pony, Perry. I’ll tell the
station agent to look after your baggage till we get back.”

Perry swung into the saddle and loped up beside the cowboy, whose
pony was dancing around while Round-up Dick sat quite unconcerned.

“You’re sure a rider, Dick,” the lad said admiringly. “I wish I could
sit a bucking horse like that!”

“This is no buckin’,” the other answered, “it’s jest a little
playfulness. No graveyard plug for mine, thanks. Where’s your
side-partner?”

“Coming right now,” answered Perry, as Antoine came round the end of
the depot at a smart pace.

Round-up Dick gave a whoop, loosed his reins, and the broncho broke
into a full run. The other two horses followed, and Perry, wild with
delight, found that the queer-looking pinto that Antoine had brought
for him was well able to keep up with the others. If anything, it was
a trifle faster than his comrade’s mount, though the cowboy’s mare
undoubtedly had the better stride. After a few minutes of the swift
pace, the town was out of sight, and Round-up Dick pulled his pony
down to a loping gait.

“You said a million years?” he queried.

“Three million would be nearer the mark,” the lad replied.

“You chuck millions o’ years around like a sport would chuck dimes
to a bunch o’ Greaser kiddies,” he remarked. “Jest drive a shaft
into this thick skull o’ mine an’ show me how you c’n tell about
three-toed horses an’ the rest o’ the layout.”

Perry looked at Antoine, but the young paleontologist replied, in
answer to the look:

“You tell him, Perry, you can make it plainer than I can.”

The boy pulled his ear meditatively.

“All right, Antoine,” he said, “I’ll do my best.”

He turned to the range-rider, and began to explain how the rocks
were made, either by deposits under the sea, or by the mud carried
down by rivers, or at the bottoms of lakes, or by dust carried in
large quantities by the wind, or by ashes from volcanic eruptions.
He showed that different kinds of animals lived at various ages, and
since they all had to die, the skeleton of one kind would be found in
one layer of rock, of another, in a different formation.

“Look here, Dick,” he continued, thinking out some way to make the
idea clear, “suppose for a minute that you were a carver, whittling
toy animals out of wood. We’ll suppose that the thing you like to
carve best is a horse.”

“Happens that I do whittle,” said the cowboy, “an’ you hit the
bull’s-eye first time—what I like best to whittle is ponies.”

“Good,” said Perry, feeling that his illustration would carry
successfully. “My next ‘supposing’ won’t be as easy.”

“Shoot!”

“Supposing you lived to be a thousand years old.”

“Don’t expect to,” said Round-up Dick; “still, I c’n pipe-dream as
good as the next man. All right, I’m goin’ to live a thousand years.
I’m to be whittlin’ steady all the time?”

“All the time,” said the boy.

“I’d be neck-deep in shavin’s,” said the rider.

“Fine,” said Perry, “that was just the idea I wanted you to get. Now,
we’ll suppose that when you started whittling you had a jack-knife,
a good one, of course, sharp and all that sort of thing, but still a
jack-knife. And we’ll suppose that the only kind of wood you could
get hold of was pine.”

“Pine an’ a jack-knife,” agreed the cowboy. “I’ve got your trail so
far.”

“You whittled these horses out of pine with a jack-knife for two
hundred years straight ahead,” suggested Perry, “and any one of them
that you didn’t think good enough you chucked on the floor, where
it soon got buried by the shavings that came showering down. Don’t
forget, Dick, you’re working like a son of a gun all this time.”

“Don’t I ever get a day off for a bust-up?” queried Dick.

“Never,” the boy replied.

“Say, pard,” the range-rider protested, “don’t ride a good horse to
death, even in a pipe-dream!”

Perry laughed and continued:

“After you had whittled straight ahead for two hundred years, you’d
have a pile of shavings. The only way that you could handle them
would be to stamp them down, every once a while, and, if the roof
leaked, the shavings would get wet when it rained and cake down on
the floor pretty solidly. Maybe, after a couple of hundred years,
you’d get a solid layer of trampled shavings and dust about a foot
thick. And scattered through this layer would be all the poor
carvings that you hadn’t thought worth saving. You get that idea all
right?”

“Pat hand,” agreed the cowboy. “Go ahead.”

“Then at the end of the two hundred years, a chap comes along and
looks at your work. He thinks it’s fine, but tells you that pine
is so soft and the grain is so big that you can’t carve the horses
as delicately as you’d like. He shows you how oak would be a heap
better. So you get hold of some oak and start whittling with oak.”

“For another two hundred years?”

“Yes,” agreed Perry. “Because the wood is harder and your knife is
getting blunt—”

“Lead me to a knife that’ll whittle steady for two hundred years!
Why, Bub, it would have to be a diamond! But I forgot, we were just
‘supposin’.’”

“An’ while you’re doing the best you can with that blunt knife,”
the lad went on, “a fellow comes along and tells you that you’ll do
a lot better if you use a chisel instead of a jack-knife. So you
buy a chisel from this chap, and go ahead with your work. Now the
chips from the chisel are going to be a little different from the
shavings you made with the jack-knife, but they’ll be oak shavings
still. Then, too, Dick, the oak being so much harder than the pine,
you’ll only have half as many shavings, so it’ll take all of the four
hundred years, two hundred with the jack-knife and two hundred with
the chisel, to make another trampled-down layer of shavings a foot
thick.”

“I see how you’re headin’,” said the cowboy, nodding wisely, “an’ in
the lower six inches o’ that oak stuff will be animals I whittled
with the knife, and in the top half, the ones I worked out with the
chisel. Is that the idee?”

“To a hair!” exclaimed Perry. “By now you’re making corking good
carvings—”

“I’d be a looney if I didn’t, after six-hundred-years’ tryin’,” the
cowboy interrupted.

“And then along comes another man.”

“Busy trail that,” Round-up Dick put in, who was obviously enjoying
the tale thoroughly, “that’s three men in six hundred years. Not what
you’d call crowded! What brilliant idee did this stranger have?”

“Boxwood,” answered the boy, “harder than oak. And for the next two
hundred years you worked in boxwood.”

He paused.

“An’ after that?” queried Round-up Dick.

“Then you take a rest,” the boy suggested.

“I thought I had somethin’ comin’,” the range-rider declared, with
mock relief in his voice. “Painted Pinto! Wouldn’t I make a town
hum after eight hundred years without a blow-out! An’ what happens
after I’m gone? Another man comes, eh? Don’t get reckless with your
population, Bub!”

“Not a stranger this time,” Perry went on, “but a cyclone.”

“Which I’m feelin’ grateful you let me get away first.”

“This is a real cyclone,” the boy continued, “and we’ll suppose that
it tore the shanty in half, cutting it clean across the floor, the
way cyclones often do, taking half of it away in a cloud of dust, but
leaving half of it as straight cut as though you’d passed a knife
through a layer cake.”

“And I returns to that scene of desolation?”

“You do,” Perry assented. “And there you see the half of the shanty
and the floor, which is in three layers, the bottom one of pine
shavings, the next one of oak, and the top one of boxwood. Then,
since you remember how you used to work, you know that there are pine
animals carved with a jack-knife in the bottom layer, oak animals
carved with a jack-knife in the lower part of the oak layer, oak
animals carved with a chisel in the top part of that layer, and
boxwood animals in the top boxwood layer.”

Antoine nodded his head approvingly.

“That is a very good figure,” he said, “I think Mr. Round-up Dick can
follow that.”

[Illustration:

  _Courtesy of American Museum of Natural History._

FINDING THE EOHIPPUS.

The Wasatch formation, in the Bad Lands of Wyoming, in which lie
skeletons of the Dawn Horse.]

[Illustration:

  _Courtesy of American Museum of Natural History._

EOHIPPUS, THE FOUR-TOED HORSE.

The Dawn Horse, the earliest horse so far known, size of a large fox,
adapted to low-lying and wooded ground.]

“Clear as the barrel of a six-shooter a foot from your nose,” agreed
the cowboy.

“Now, Dick,” Perry went on, “the real thing was a good deal that
way. When Nature first started to make a horse, it came out like a
four-toed creature not much bigger than a fox. The rocks that Nature
was making at that time, which we call Lower Eocene, we can liken to
the pine shavings. So you see, wherever you find Lower Eocene rocks
you’re likely to find skeletons of that little four-toed horse, just
the same way as any place in that layer of pine shavings you’d be
apt to find the horses whittled out of pine. We call that horse an
Eohippus.”

“That’s a whole lot of handle for a critter no bigger’n a fox!”

“‘Hippus’ means ‘horse,’ and ‘eo’ means ‘dawn,’” explained the boy,
“so the Eohippus is the Dawn Horse, or the Dawn of the Horse.”

The cowboy rolled a cigarette.

“Which I’m admirin’ your lay-out a heap,” he said, “you’ve sure got a
double cinch-strap on that horse stuff.”

“I ought to have,” said Perry, “it’s what I want to work at, though I
haven’t had much chance in the field yet. Well,” he continued, “after
a few hundred thousand years had gone by, Nature improved on the
horse. She found she could make a better horse, if he was a little
bigger, and that he could run quicker on three toes than on four. So
in the next layer of rocks, which we call Oligocene, and which we
can liken to the lower layer of the oak shavings, you’re apt to find
skeletons of that three-toed horse, which is called Mesohippus, same
as you’d find a knife-whittled oak horse in the lower layer of oak
shavings.”


Far away in the distance, where perhaps some slight vegetation came
down from the hills, for he was on the very edge of the desert
country, came the long-drawn howl of a coyote. For a second the
hammer hung poised, then fell again, beating, beating through the
night.

He knew that to expose such a skeleton would mean the work of a month
or two for several men, probably with the aid of dynamite, but he
was determined at least to bring an inch or two, clear. The chill
star-shine gave him light enough, but though the day had been so
hot, the night was cold. He piled a heap of sage-brush and mesquite
and lit a fire. Then, unable to leave his find, back he went to the
skeleton again.

[Illustration:

  _Courtesy of J. B. Lippincott & Co._

A BRACHIOSAUR, LARGEST OF ALL LAND CREATURES.



Nearly thirty college stars and champions, men like Dr. Kraenzlein,
Thorpe, Ketcham, “Sammy” White, “Eddie” Hart, Ralph Craig, “Hurry
Up” Yost, Jay Camp, Horner, Jackson, F. D. Huntington, R. Norris
Williams, “Eddie” Mahan, and many more tell the best there is to tell
about every form of athletic contest of consequence. In charge of the
whole work is Paul Withington, of Harvard, famous as football player,
oarsman, wrestler and swimmer.

  “Here is a book that will serve a purpose and satisfy a need. Every
  important phase of sport in school and college is discussed within
  its covers by men who have achieved eminent success in their line.
  Methods of training, styles of play, and directions for attaining
  success are expounded in a clear, forceful, attractive manner.”

  _Harvard Monthly._

  “The book is made up under the direction of the best qualified
  editor to be found, Paul Withington, who is one of America’s
  greatest amateur athletes, and who has the intellectual ability and
  high character requisite for presenting such a book properly. The
  emphasis placed upon clean living, fair play and moderation in all
  things makes this book as desirable educationally as it is in every
  other way.”


*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE MONSTER-HUNTERS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

• You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation.”

• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
  works.

• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you “AS-IS”, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™'s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.